In this section, we are discussing a question about the difference between all all settle and race
matter of promise.
This question is of asynchronous JavaScript section and there will be four related questions we will
have with this topic.
We have already seen the use of promise object.
We also discussed the result and reject methods which are the most commonly used methods with promises.
Though nowadays we go with async await rather than resolve and reject, which will be the next topic
of our discussion.
But in this section we are discussing about these three methods.
Now let's start with Brummies not all method.
The purpose is when you have multiple promises as input, it should return a single promise.
After all, promises are resolved.
Then you can use the Almighty.
It will be something like this that you have promised one promise to maybe a few more processes, and
each promise gets resolved and then it is passed as a parameter in the Almighty.
So there might be multiple promises which are passed to the Iterable object in the all method.
Now, when I say iterable, it means there can be any iterable object.
But at the moment, or most of the time, we see that there is always an array which contains each promised
reference.
Mostly you see an array as an argument which has promises.
Let's try a simple example to check this.
I will create few promises at the moment.
LCP one is equal to new promise.
Which will have a callback function with two static functions.
Static matters that is resolve and reject.
And let's also put aside time out here.
Which again has a callback function and that gets executed.
Let's after.
2000 milliseconds.
Inside this, I'm just going to say resolved and we are going to pass a message that is promise one.
That's it.
This is one promise we have created.
Now, let me also create two more promises this way.
So there are three promises.
I have B1, B2 and B3.
So these are three objects we have.
Which are handling the promise.
Now, let's see.
You warned that when all these three processes are done, then it should return one promise.
That's where you are going to use the all method.
Let me configure all the promises with the Almighty.
So I say promise?
Not all.
Now here, you're going to pass the dribble.
So right now I'm putting an edit.
And as you see that we have B1, B2 and B3.
These are the three promise references.
So that's what I'm going to pass here.
I'll say B1, B2 and B3.
At the same time, each promise will return a different message as a promise to and promise.
Three.
Now.
I'm going to use the den here.
Which will receive a message here I am going to say.
All the promises are sending messages here through results.
So I'm going to see PR messages.
That is promise messages are something.
Any variable you take doesn't matter.
Now I'm seeing console.log and will display the p r messages variable.
So this is what the code is.
We have the promise one which returns true resolved.
Same is the case with promise two and promise three.
Each promise is returning a different message.
Let's run and see what happens here.
It has waited for 2 seconds.
Each promise anyway, takes 2 seconds only to execute.
And you see that the PR message is now has this value collection that is added of all the values which
was returned by the resolve method.
So here what we have done is that we have taken promised Dart all method which has an iterable inside
it.
Then we are using the then method and we are proceeding with a callback function which gets all the
messages off each promise.
Let's try some modifications in the program.
This B-1, which we have here.
Let me just make this as be two.
And instead of P3, I will say P1.
So I'm changing the sequence.
Now let's run the code and look at the output.
You see that it has promised to promise three and promise one.
This is what the output is.
The reason is you do not have to worry about in which sequence the promise is executed.
It might happen that all of the promises at the moment have 2000 milliseconds, but let's say one promise
may take more time.
But the sequence will be followed in this message variable with reference to the sequence you have mentioned
with the iterable.
Now let's make it B1, B2 again.
And let me show you by changing.
The timing, let's say this parent takes.
4000 milliseconds.
That is after 4 seconds this will be resolved, whereas these two promises will be resolved in just
2 seconds.
So ideally, you might think that this should be the last message, but that won't happen because the
all matter will check in sequence which is mentioned here in this Adi.
Let me save this and run the code again.
So after 4 seconds, you see that the promise one still stays at the same that is at the first place.
So now we know the basic syntax and behavior of all matter.
The code we see right now is returning resolve state in all cases.
Let's try to change one of the promise by returning a reject state and see what happens.
Let me just change this result to reject.
Let me also change this 4000 to 2000 so that it doesn't take more time.
All right.
So now what change I have made is I placed reject.
I replaced resolve with reject.
That is.
Now I just want to run this call.
So after 2 seconds, you are facing an ad, as you can see, that now it has stopped working because
the all matter is settled with only and only result promises.
And if any of the promise is returning error, then it won't work.
Let me also add a catch with the all method, which is a proper way to write the code.
So here I'm going to add a catch.
Which will again have the added object.
Are the measures which we are going to retrieve in this error object and I will simply say console.log.
Let me display whatever is the value in the adder.
Now at the moment reject will raise the error, but this promise value that is promised three will be
passed in this era.
Right.
So when I clear this and run it again.
At least this is the error section displayed for sure.
Let me also add added here.
So you get the right message.
Right.
So if anything, which displays with this ad, it means it actually went in the catch section.
So you see that it displays error promise three.
So in short, when all promises are expected to return success, our results state.
You can use the all method.
But what if you have a possibility of error or rejection, which is equally possible?
Most of the programs will have some or the other error as well.
Now all will stop working.
It will not run for other promises.
It has stopped working for other promises, even if a single promise has returned.
And at the way is that you use the all cycle method.
All settled matter does help in this situation.
It will wait for all the promises, regardless of their state, and will return promise at the end no
matter what is the state.
That is whether it is a result state or rejected or whatever.
It is going to wait and run all the promises one by one.
Let me simply add.
Settle here.
That's it.
Now earlier it was giving the ad it.
Now let's see what happens.
The outputs is that you have added return with some data.
That is a kind of object literally we have which has titles and a value.
So you see there are three object literature, three elements in short fulfil.
The first promise was fulfilled, second was fulfilled with the value.
And here the third one, the status is rejected and the reason is something which our error is displayed
that that will be the reason.
So in short, this is how all settle and all differ.
So the major difference you realize here is that all matter will work when all the promises are returning,
the results state.
That is, rejection will be handled better with all settled.
Now let's talk about the promise, not this method.
This method simply returns a promise as soon as any of the promise returns the state from the iterable
list provided.
Let's change the method also to race and observe the output.
Let me run the court.
That's it.
So it's a kind of race among promises.
Whichever promise was executed first, that is returned with the race method.
So what happens when you have a process?
Let's say you have an API call, right?
Multiple API calls, that is.
And you want that.
If one of the API call is done, you want to come out with a new promise return.
Then instead of writing all or all cycle, you are going to use the restart method.
So here, when you say race matter, it means it is going to race among each promise.
Whichever wins that gets executed.
It means that let's say this promise.
Three.
Let me reduce milliseconds here.
So the promise tree is executed, which was actually rejecting, but then also that got executed.
And because we have written the catch, it got caught in the catch section and it displays promise three
here.
Let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is what will be the output if the iterable is not a promise inside all method arguments?
For example, as shown where B2 is not a promise.
So the answer is that we have be2 as a normal variable.
It's not exactly a promise.
Now that is parsed here in the iterable.
So what happens?
All matter doesn't mind that.
Not necessarily that dimension.
Element is a promise object.
It can be any variable or anything that will automatically be part or a kind of element of this variable
that is PR messages.
Let's save this and try to run and see what is the output.
It's not going to give any added in chart.
You see that the ADI of B of messages does have promise one which was ISR promise three which is again
desired and the p to the value of p two is just a string, which is not a promise that is also becoming
a part of this.
P are messages variable?
Second question is how will you handle rejected multiple promises in the most efficient way?
So we have already discussed that if you are using the all method, then it will work for all the resolved
states.
But if that is a rejection, if there is an error, then you can handle such a situation with all settled
matter.
The third question is explain the purpose of promise, not race matter.
Now we have already seen the syntax and execution, but it returns the promise as soon as any promise
mentioned in the attribute list returns the state.
Now that state can be resolved or reject doesn't matter.
The purpose of race matter is sometimes you have multiple promises and you have a kind of setting where
even if only one promise, whichever it is executed first, if that is executed, you do not want other
promises to execute.
And that's the exact situation where the race matter is useful.
What will be the output of empty iterable if given as a parameter inside the race method as shown in
the score?
So race method is given an empty array, then the state will be pending.
So this promise, not race, will always return a pending state.
So this promise will never be resolved.
Let's try that.
I have this object that is the object.
Now, if I display the object here, it should display the pending state.
And even after 2 seconds, if I display the value that's going to be pending, right?
So if that is an empty treble, then it will be pending forever in case of race method.
So let me just run the code pending again.
Pending, right.
When will this situation happen?
This is the promise which you are having that might be generated dynamically and let's say no values
returned.
So race will have empty array.
Sometimes such cases will have pending state.
But this is just a behavior which I am talking.
That's why I have raised this question here.
So in charge it will be pending forever.